---
title: Nebraska’s 3rd District and the “Big Beautiful Bill”
date: 2025-06-26
description: 'Congressman Adrian Smith’s description of the “Big Beautiful Bill” or The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act recently passed by the House of Representatives causes one to wonder if he has moved to an alternate reality or did he just not read the bill? He’s on the Ways and Means committee that produced the bill so surely, he knows what’s in it.'
---

**By** _Concerned Citizens of Western Nebraska_

Congressman Adrian Smith’s description of the “Big Beautiful Bill” or The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act recently passed by the House of Representatives causes one to wonder if he has moved to an alternate reality or did he just not read the bill? He’s on the Ways and Means committee that produced the bill so surely, he knows what’s in it.

The Congressman states “House Republicans have fulfilled our commitments to bring tax relief and certainty to American families, seniors, small businesses and our hardworking agricultural producers.” The bill is over 1,000 pages long and has a complex mix of tax cuts, spending cuts, and other policy changes that deserve more than a quick “Trust me. This is a great bill that’s good for everybody” press release. Yet he offers no real explanation except to brag about his role in creating federal tax breaks for gifts to private schools. (If I remember right a strong majority of Nebraskans just voted against taking resources away from public schools and shifting them to private schools.) He also brags about doing away with an IRS pilot program, that lets taxpayers file a tax return directly instead of buying expensive TurboTax software or paying a tax preparer. Congress legally authorized and paid for the program. It has worked well saving taxpayer’s time and money. He claims the program was “unlawful, unfair and expensive.” That’s only true if you are the TurboTax lobbyist.

Back to that question, has Congressman Smith moved to an alternate reality? His reality is a secure pay check, excellent health care and a cushy retirement plan. That is far from the reality of many, if not most, of his old neighbors in Gering or constituents across rural Nebraska. So perhaps it slipped his notice that healthcare professionals have described how proposed cuts to Medicaid in this bill will close rural hospitals, nursing homes, and will make rural areas unable to retain doctors, nurses, and other health care providers. One estimate predicts twelve rural hospitals could close. Look out small towns where ever you are.

Veterans’ groups expect cuts in this bill will lead to a loss of care, longer waiting lines, fewer providers and reduced support for PTSD and other severe conditions. According to the Wall Street Journal, states will be faced with covering a greater share of Medicaid and SNAP so how much of any savings on your federal taxes will be eaten up by increased state taxes? While there are some cuts in taxes,they are not huge for ordinary people. And rates are not stable; they change in the future.

Nebraskans have always been a pay-as-you-go state. This bill raises the U.S. deficit by at least another 2.3 trillion over the next ten years according to the Congressional Budget Office. An analysis by the Penn Wharton Budget model (House Reconciliation Bill: Budget, Economic and Distributional Effects, May 2025) concludes whatever economic gains the bill delivers will not offset the effects of the increase in debt and the reduced safety net provided by such programs as Medicaid and SNAP. Wharton states “All future generations are projected to lose under this bill.” So that means we leave more debt for our kids and their kids. Finally, the statutory “Pay as You Go Act” of 2010 could be triggered by this bill (Congressional Budget Office) and force cuts to Medicare if the Senate doesn’t act. (Call your senator every day until they fix this!)

Just a reminder, we in Nebraska’s Third District are a geographically large, majority rural, district with a lot of small towns. A lot of us are over 65 or are veterans. People already drive long distances for health care and veterans’ services. Working age people not only are trying to build a future for their kids and grandkids but often are caring for elderly relatives. In many areas good jobs with benefits are hard to find. We pay our bills and take care of our neighbors and this bill and other recent actions by the President and Elon Musk makes that more difficult.

Congressman Smith, it’s time to retire. You’ve forgotten where you came from.

Originally posted to [ChadronRadio.com](https://chadronradio.com/nebraskas-3rd-district-and-the-big-beautiful-bill/)